# Prosthetic Technology Analysis

Here we analyzed the citation network of research articles related to the progress and development of prosthetic technology. More specifically, we are focused on the outer extremities such as feet, arms, legs, etc. Our goal is to also utilize this network to track the progress of development over a short period of time and potentially predict where the future of prosthetics technology lies. To do so, we chose to build our network using articles around the time of World War Two (1940s). We gathered several research papers from each decade (from 1940s-2020s) and then we put those papers into the researchrabbit.ai software. The software then connects our nodes (research papers) and our edges (an article that cited that node). Initially, our project was going to have around 1,000 nodes, but after we refined our search to only outer extremities it severely decreased the size of our network to around 80 nodes and 170 edges.

To refine our analysis further, we divided our research questions into the following three areas of focus: authors, date of publication and keywords. Regarding the authors of the articles, our focus was to observe any trends in unique authors with the network. This should cause nodes to fall in line with community behavior, since the hubs of a network would have a significant number of unique nodes connecting to it. Analyzing the recurring keywords within articles, the network should display a low closeness centrality between nodes sharing an attribute like keywords. We will do so using researchrabbit.ai, keyword filtration system in tandem with the network in Gephi. The goal of last analysis, dates of publication, is to determine whether the year the article was published correlates with the degree of a certain node. We predict that nodes with publication dates post World War 2 (1945) will display a higher degree. We developed our network by searching for articles in PubMed by decade and then by relevance. We then added them into Research Rabbit and used the ‘Later Works’ function to generate a network based off papers that cited the ones added. We used this to manually create files to export into Gephi for further analysis.
